.\" @(#)votpos.1 1.0 Feb-2013 MJF
.TH VOTPOS 1 "Feb 2013" "VOClient Package"
.SH NAME
votpos \- Extract the main positional columns from a VOTable
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvotpos\fP [\fI-opts\fP] votable.xml
.SH OPTIONS
The \fIvotpos\fP task accepts the following options:
.TP 6
.B \-h, --help
Print a help summary to the terminal and exit.  No processing is done 
following this flag.

.B \-n, --number
Print the row number before the position.
.TP 6
.B \-o \fINAME\fP, --output \fINAME\fP
Write the result to the file \fINAME\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIvotpos\fP task is used to convert a VOTable XML document to a
different format, or to rewrite a VOTable using (or removing) indention.
Creating a new VOTable document will fix any compliance issues since the
task will loosly read a VOTable on input but will always write an XML
file that complies with the VOTable specification.

If no input file is specified the VOTable will be read from the stdin,
results will be written to stdout unless the \fI\-o\fP (or \fI\--output\fP)
names an output file.  The task will only process a single VOTable and may
not be used to convert multiple files in a single call.

.SH RETURN STATUS
On exit the \fBvotpos\fP task will return a zero indicating success, or a 
one indicating an error.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
1) Print the primary (RA,Dec) columns from a table:

.nf
  % votpos test.xml           	# un-numbered
  % votpos -n test.xml          # numbered
  % cat test.xml | votpos     	# un-numbered
.fi
.TP 4
2) Print the primary (RA,Dec) columns to a file:

.nf
  % votpos -o pos.txt test.xml
.fi
.SH BUGS
No known bugs with this release.
.SH Revision History
Feb 2013 - First public release
.SH Author
Michael Fitzpatrick (fitz@noao.edu), Feb 2013
.SH "SEE ALSO"
votget, votinfo, votcnv, votsort, votstat
